docs/build/build.md, before:

---
title: Building and Flashing
page_id: build_flash
---


To compile arm-none-eabi- tools from https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded
should be in the path.
On Ubuntu, you can install the tools:

```
sudo apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi gdb-arm-none-eabi binutils-arm-none-eabi
```

Compilation options can be saved in config.mk. Main targets:

```
make                 # Make with BLE support
make BLE=0           # Make without BLE support
make BLE=0 S110=0    # Make without BLE and without Softdevice in flash (see bellow)

make flash           # Flash firmware with jtag
make factory_reset   # Erase device and flash softdevice, bootloaders, and firmware
```

Architecture
------------

When running without softdevice (S110=0) the firmware is loaded at the
beginning of the flash and is running alone in the CPU.

When running with Softdevive (S110=1) independent of if BLE is activated
or not, the flash is filled as follow:
```
+--------------+ 256k
|     MBS      |    Write protected
+--------------+ 252k
|  Bootloader  |
+--------------+ 232k
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|  Firmware    |
+--------------+ 88K
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|  Softdevice  |
+--------------+ 4K
|     MBR      |    Write protected
+--------------+ 0
```

 - **MBR** Softdevice Master Boot Record.
 - **SoftDevice** S110 Bluetooth stack
 - **Firmware** This firmware
 - **Bootloader** Bluetooth/Shockburst bootloader
 - **MBS** Master Boot Switch

Boot sequence:
```
 MBR ----> MBS ----> Bootloader ----> Firmware
```

The MBR is part of the Softdevice. It boots the CPU and jump to MBS.
The MBR contains methods to start the Softdevice and can flash softdevice
and bootloader.

The MBS handles the ON/OFF button and communicate the duration of the press to
the bootloader so that the bootloader knows what to boot. The reason for the
MBS is to allow updating the bootloader over the air while still having a
write-protected piece of software that can start the STM32 in USB DFU mode
for recovery (the STM32 has access to the NRF51 SWD programming port). The boot
switch is as follow:

| Press time      | Blue LED state | Program booted                               |
| --------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Short           | Still          | Firmware                                     |
| Long (>3s)      | Slow blink     | Bootloader                                   |
| Very long (>5s) | Fast blink     | Stays in MBS and power STM32 in USB DFU mode |

The bootloader, if selected, starts the STM32 in bootloader mode and initialize
both BLE and Shockburst (ESB) radio. It can flash everything but MBR and MBS.
It also acts as a bridge to the STM32 bootloader.

If not selected, the bootloader jumps to the firmware.

Commit message:

(#44) transferred all content from readme to build.md and add a link to readme

docs/build/build.md, after:

---
title: Building and Flashing
page_id: build
---

Compiling with bluetooth support requires the nRF51_SDK and S110 packages.

```
./tools/build/download_deps
```

will download the zips and unpack them.
If you want to download manually from the Nordic semiconductor website, you
will find the details in nrf51_sdk/readme and s110/readme.

Compiling
---------

To compile arm-none-eabi- tools from https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded
should be in the path.
On Ubuntu, you can install the tools:

```
sudo apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi gdb-arm-none-eabi binutils-arm-none-eabi
```

Compilation options can be saved in config.mk. Main targets:

```
make                    # Make with BLE support
make BLE=0              # Make without BLE support
make BLE=0 S110=0       # Make without BLE and without Softdevice in flash (see bellow)

make cload              # Flash firmware over radio 

make flash              # Flash firmware with jtag
make factory_reset      # Erase device and flash softdevice, bootloaders, and firmware for Crazyflie 2.0
make factory_reset_21   # Erase device and flash softdevice, bootloaders, and firmware for Crazyflie 2.1
                        # The Crazyflie 2.1 needs to be powered by battery only for this to work
```

Architecture            
------------

When running without softdevice (S110=0) the firmware is loaded at the
beginning of the flash and is running alone in the CPU.

When running with Softdevive (S110=1) independent of if BLE is activated
or not, the flash is filled as follow:
```
+--------------+ 256k
|     MBS      |    Write protected
+--------------+ 252k
|  Bootloader  |
+--------------+ 232k
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|  Firmware    |
+--------------+ 88K
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
|  Softdevice  |
+--------------+ 4K
|     MBR      |    Write protected
+--------------+ 0
```

 - **MBR** Softdevice Master Boot Record.
 - **SoftDevice** S110 Bluetooth stack
 - **Firmware** This firmware
 - **Bootloader** Bluetooth/Shockburst bootloader
 - **MBS** Master Boot Switch

Boot sequence:
```
 MBR ----> MBS ----> Bootloader ----> Firmware
```

The MBR is part of the Softdevice. It boots the CPU and jump to MBS.
The MBR contains methods to start the Softdevice and can flash softdevice
and bootloader.

The MBS handles the ON/OFF button and communicate the duration of the press to
the bootloader so that the bootloader knows what to boot. The reason for the
MBS is to allow updating the bootloader over the air while still having a
write-protected piece of software that can start the STM32 in USB DFU mode
for recovery (the STM32 has access to the NRF51 SWD programming port). The boot
switch is as follow:

| Press time      | Blue LED state | Program booted                               |
| --------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Short           | Still          | Firmware                                     |
| Long (>3s)      | Slow blink     | Bootloader                                   |
| Very long (>5s) | Fast blink     | Stays in MBS and power STM32 in USB DFU mode |

The bootloader, if selected, starts the STM32 in bootloader mode and initialize
both BLE and Shockburst (ESB) radio. It can flash everything but MBR and MBS.
It also acts as a bridge to the STM32 bootloader.

If not selected, the bootloader jumps to the firmware.
